📋 Functional Requirements
👤 1. User Account & Authentication

FR1 – Sign Up
The system shall allow users to create an account using their personal information.

FR2 – Log In
The system shall allow users to log in using their credentials.

FR3 – Log Out
The system shall allow users to log out of their account.

FR4 – Password Reset
The system shall allow users to reset their password.

🧑‍💼 2. User Profile Management

FR5 – Update First Name
The system shall allow users to update their first name.

FR6 – Update Last Name
The system shall allow users to update their last name.

FR7 – Update Bio
The system shall allow users to update their profile bio.

FR8 – Update Status
The system shall allow users to update their availability status.

FR9 – Update Skills
The system shall allow users to update their skills.

FR10 – Upload Profile Picture
The system shall allow users to upload and update a profile picture.

FR11 – Manage Past Projects
The system shall allow users to add past projects to their profile.(manage past projects to show or hide any of them using a toggle)

FR12 – Specify Experience Level
The system shall allow users to specify their experience level for each skill independently.

FR13 – View Other Profiles
The system shall allow users to view other users’ profiles.

📁 3. Project Management

FR14 – Create Project
The system shall allow users to create new projects.

FR15 – Edit Project Name
The system shall allow users to edit the project name.

FR16 – Edit Project Description
The system shall allow users to edit the project description.

FR17 – Delete Project
The system shall allow users to delete projects they own.

FR18 – View Projects
The system shall allow users to view all their projects.

FR19 – Invite Members
The system shall allow users to invite others to join a project.

FR20 – Remove Member
The system shall allow project owners to remove members from a project.

FR21 – Edit Member Role
The system shall allow project owners to modify roles of project members.

FR22 – Leave Project
The system shall allow users to leave a project.

FR23 – Respond to Invitations
The system shall allow users to accept or reject project invitations.

✅ 4. Task Management

FR24 – Create Task
The system shall allow users to create tasks within a project.

FR25 – Assign Task
The system shall allow users to assign tasks to team members.

FR26 – Update Task Status
The system shall allow users to update task status (To Do, In Progress, Done).

FR27 – Set Deadline
The system shall allow users to set deadlines for tasks.

FR28 – Edit Task
The system shall allow users to edit tasks.

FR29 – Delete Task
The system shall allow users to delete tasks.

FR30 – View Tasks
The system shall allow users to view all tasks within a project.

🔍 5. Search & Discovery

FR31 – Search Users by Name
The system shall allow users to search for other users by name.

FR32 – Search Users by Skills
The system shall allow users to search for users based on skills.

FR33 – Browse Projects
The system shall allow users to browse available projects.

FR34 – Request to Join Project
The system shall allow users to request to join projects.

💬 6. Communication

FR35 – Send Message
The system shall allow users to send messages in project chats.

FR36 – Delete Message
The system shall allow users to delete messages in project chats.

🔔 7. Notifications

FR37 – Message Notifications
The system shall notify users of new messages.

FR38 – Task Assignment Notifications
The system shall notify users when tasks are assigned to them.

FR39 – Deadline Notifications
The system shall notify users of upcoming deadlines.

FR40 – Project Request Notifications
The system shall notify users of join requests and approvals.
